Soil chemistry turned upside down: a meta-analysis of invasive earthworm effects on soil chemical properties
Effect of earthworm addition on soil nitrogen availability, microbial biomass and litter decomposition in mesocosms.
A review of earthworm impact on soil function and ecosystem services.
Ecosystem consequences of exotic earthworm invasion of north temperate forests.
Non-native invasive earthworms as agents of change in northern temperate forests.
Protection of soil carbon by microaggregates within earthworm casts.
Strategies lombriciennes Ecological Bulletins
How do earthworms affect microfloral and faunal community diversity?
Carbon and nitrogen mobilisation by earthworms of different functional groups as affected by soil sand content.
Burrow systems of endogeic earthworms: Effects of earthworm abundance and consequences for soil water infiltration.
Non-native earthworms in riparian soils increase nitrogen flux into adjacent aquatic ecosystems.
Invasion of exotic earthworms into ecosystems inhabited by native earthworms. Biological Invasions.
Pandora's box contained bait: the global problem of introduced earthworms.
Gross nitrogen mineralisation and fungi-to-bacteria ratios are negatively correlated in boreal forests.
Influence of invasive earthworms on above and belowground vegetation in a northern hardwood forest.
Jennions, M. D., C. J. Lortie, M. S. Rosenberg, and H. R. Rothstein. 2013. Publication and related biases.
Resource stoichiometry and availability modulate species richness and biomass of tropical litter macro-invertebrates.
Biogeochemistry and the structure of tropical brown food webs.
Consumption of leaf litter by Lumbricus terrestris (Oligochaeta) on a Michigan woodland floodplain.
Effect of the endogeic earthworm Aporrectodea tuberculata on aggregation and carbon redistribution in uninvaded forest soil columns.
Uses and misuses of meta-analysis in plant ecology.
Handbook of meta-analysis in ecology and evolution.
Soil ecology. Springer Science Business Media.
Effects of earthworms on soil organic matter and nutrient dynamics at a landscape scale over decades.
Influence of nonnative earthworms on mycorrhizal colonization of sugar maple (Acer saccharum).
Greenhouse-gas emissions from soils increased by earthworms.
Short-and long-term effects of the endogeic earthworm Millsonia anomala (Omodeo) (Megascolecidæ,Oligochaeta) of tropical savannas, on soil organic matter.
Plant diversity and ecosystem productivity: theoretical considerations.
Microbial respiration, biomass, biovolume and nutrient status in burrow walls of Lumbricus terrestris L. (Lumbricidae).
Microflora, protozoa and nematoda in Lumbricus terrestris burrow walls: a laboratory experiment.
The unseen invaders: introduced earthworms as drivers of change in plant communities in North American forests (a meta-analysis).
Factors affecting earthworm abundance in soils.
Earthworm Ecology. CRC Press, Boca Raton, Florida, USA.
The action of an animal ecosystem engineer: Identification of the main mechanisms of earthworm impacts on soil microarthropods. Pedobiologia.
Invasion of a deciduous forest by earthworms: Changes in soil chemistry, microflora, microarthropods and vegetation.
Ecosystem responses to exotic earthworm invasion in northern North American forests.
Earthworm effects on the incorporation of litter C and N into soil organic matter in a sugar maple forest.
Carbon food resources of earthworms of different ecological groups as indicated by 13C compound-specific stable isotope analysis.
Invasive earthworms erode soil biodiversity: a meta-analysis.
Linking direct and indirect pathways mediating earthworms, deer, and understory composition in Great Lakes forests.
Earthworm invasion into previously earthworm-free temperate and boreal forests.
Earthworms increase plant production: a meta-analysis.
Exotic earthworm invasion and microbial biomass in temperate forest soils.
Earthworms increase soil microbial biomass carrying capacity and nitrogen retention in northern hardwood forests.
Nitrogen oligotrophication in northern hardwood forests.
Effects of European earthworm invasion on soil characteristics in northern hardwood forests of Minnesota.
The unseen majority: soil microbes as drivers of plant diversity and productivity in terrestrial ecosystems.
Exotic earthworm invasions in North America: ecological and policy implications.
Earthworm-induced shifts in microbial diversity in soils with rare versus established invasive earthworm populations.
The influence of invasive earthworms on indigenous fauna in ecosystems previously uninhabited by earthworms.
Belowground interactions with aboveground consequences: Invasive earthworms and arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi.
Earthworm activity and soil structure changes due to organic enrichments in vineyard system.
Performance of the trim and fill method in the presence of publication bias and between-study heterogeneity.
Earthworm species composition affects the soil bacterial community and net nitrogen mineralization.
Earthworms and management affect organic matter incorporation and microaggregate formation in agricultural soils.
Effects of non-native Asian earthworm invasion on temperate forest and prairie soils in the Midwestern US.
R: a language and environment for statistical computing.
Elemental and mineralogical changes in soils due to bioturbation along an earthworm invasion chronosequence in Northern Minnesota.
The file-drawer problem revisited: a general weighted method for calculating fail-safe numbers in meta-analysis.
Microbial and microfaunal community dynamics in artificial and Lumbricus terrestris (L.) burrows.
Influence of fragmentation and bioturbation on the decomposition of 14C-labelled beech leaf litter.
Effects of exotic earthworms on soil phosphorus cycling in two broadleaf temperate forests.
Invasive earthworm species and nitrogen cycling in remnant forest patches.
Ecosystem effects of non-native earthworms in Mid-Atlantic deciduous forests.
Bias and efficiency of meta-analytic variance estimators in the random-effects model.
Conducting meta-analyses in R with the metafor package.
Terrestrial ecosystem responses to species gains and losses.
Chemoautotrophic nitrification in acidic forest soils along an urban-to-rural transect.
Earthworms affect plant growth and resistance against herbivores: A meta-analysis
The mineral nutrition of wild plants revisited: A re-evaluation of processes and patterns.
Macroevolution of plant defense strategies.
Earthworm functional traits and interspecific interactions affect plant nitrogen acquisition and primary production.
Potential impact of soil microbiomes on the leaf metabolome and on herbivore feeding behavior.
Experimental evidence that soil fauna enhance nutrient mineralization and plant nutrient uptake in montane grassland ecosystems.
Using meta-regression to explore moderating effects in surveys of international achievement.
Earthworm services for cropping systems.
Role of earthworms in soil fertility maintenance through the production of biogenic structures.
A review of earthworm impact on soil function and ecosystem services.
Belowground organism activities affect plant aboveground phenotype, inducing plant tolerance to parasites.
Interactive effects of functionally different earthworm species on aggregation and incorporation and decomposition of newly added residue carbon.
Interactions between earthworms and plant-parasitic nematodes.
How earthworms affect plant growth: Burrowing into the mechanisms.
Analysis of wheat resistance to the cereal aphid Sitobion avenae using electrical penetration graphs and flow charts combined with correspondence analysis.
The green peach aphid Myzus persicae perform better on pre-infested Chinese cabbage Brassica pekinensis by enhancing host plant nutritional quality
Resource availability and plant antiherbivore defense.
Soil animals and pedogenesis: The role of earthworms in anthropogenic soils.
The feeding ecology of earthworms – A review. Pedobiologia.
Competition and resource-mediated tradeoffs between growth and defensive chemistry in trembling aspen (Populus tremuloides).
Earthworms as drivers of the competition between grasses and legumes.
The role of protein effectors in plantaphid interactions.
The growth-defense trade-off and habitat specialization by plants in Amazonian forests.
Effects of Allelochemicals from First (Brassicaceae) and second (Myzus persicae and Brevicoryne brassicae) trophic levels on Adalia bipunctata.
The meta-analysis of response ratios in experimental ecology.
The dilemma of plants: To grow or defend.
Earthworms influence the production of above and belowground biomass and the expression of genes involved in cell proliferation and stress responses in Arabidopsis thaliana.
Handbook of meta-analysis in ecology and evolution.
volutionary ecology of plant defences against herbivores.
Plant mediated effects of soil invertebrates and summer drought on above-ground multitrophic interactions.
Plant mediated effects of earthworms on aphid dynamics.
Induced responses to herbivory. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press.
Herbivore diet breadth and host plant defense mediate the tri-trophic effects of plant toxins on multiple coccinellid predators.
Earthworms, collembola and residue management change wheat (Triticum aestivum) and herbivore pest performance (Aphidina: Rhophalosiphum padi).
Myzus persicae (green peach aphid) feeding on Arabidopsis induces the formation of a deterrent indole glucosinolate.
Meta-analysis of sources of variation in fitness costs of plant antiherbivore defenses.
Effects of mycorrhizal fungi on insect herbivores: A meta-analysis.
Handbook of meta-analysis in ecology and evolution.
Effects of residue decomposition on productivity and soil fertility in rice–wheat rotation.
Effects of an endogeic and an anecic earthworm on the competition between four annual plants and their relative fecundity.
Life-history constraints in grassland plant species: A growth-defence trade-off is the norm.
Decomposers and root feeders interactively affect plant defence in Sinapis alba.
How earthworm activities affect banana plant response to nematodes parasitism.
Induced resistance for plant defense: A sustainable approach to crop protection.
The continuum of plant responses to herbivory: The influence of plant association, nutrient availability, and timing.
Herbivory in relation to plant nitrogen content.
Testing and adjusting for publication bias.
Potential effects of earthworms on leaf-chewer performance.
The evolution of resistance and tolerance to herbivores.
Recent progress in plant nutrition research: Cross-talk between nutrients, plant physiology and soil microorganisms.
Differential costs of two distinct resistance mechanisms induced by different herbivore species in Arabidopsis. 
Beneficial microbes in a changing environment: Are they always helping plants to deal with insects?
Editorial: Above-belowground interactions involving plants, microbes and insects.
Helping plants to deal with insects: The role of beneficial soil-borne microbes.
Decomposition and mineralization of nutrients from litter and humus. In H. BassiriRad (Ed.), Nutrient acquisition by plants. An ecological perspective (Ecological Studies).
Signal molecules mediate the impact of the earthworm Aporrectodea caliginosa on growth, development and defence of the plant Arabidopsis thaliana.
Transcriptional profiling of wheat in response to take-all disease and mechanisms involved in earthworm’s biocontrol effect.
R: A language and environment for statistical computing.
The file-drawer problem revisited: A general weighted method for calculating fail-safe numbers in meta-analysis.
Effects of life history, domestication and agronomic selection on plant defence against insects: Evidence from maizes and wild relatives.
Tolerance to herbivory by a stem boring caterpillar in architecturally distinct maizes and wild relatives.
Effects of earthworms on plant growth: Patterns and perspectives.
Links between the detritivore and the herbivore system: Effects of earthworms and Collembola on plant growth and aphid development.
Insect-plant biology Schoonhoven, L. M., Van Loon, J. J., & Dicke, M. (2005).
The role of microarthropods in decomposition and mineralization processes.
Land-use and land-management change: Relationships with earthworm and fungi communities and soil structural properties.
Plant interactions with multiple insect herbivores: From community to genes.
The ecology and evolution of plant tolerance to herbivory.
Mechanisms of tolerance to herbivore damage: What do we know?
Herbivory of an invasive slug in a model grassland community can be affected by earthworms and mycorrhizal fungi.
Earthworms increase plant production: A meta-analysis.
Conducting meta-analyses in R with the metafor package.
The myriad plant responses to herbivores.
Domestication impacts on plant-herbivore interactions: A meta-analysis.
Effects of earthworms on above- and below-ground herbivores.
Plant-mediated links between detritivores and aboveground herbivores.
Earthworms counterbalance the negative effect of microorganisms on plant diversity and enhance the tolerance of grasses to nematodes.
Combined effects of earthworms and vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizas on plant and aphid performance.
Earthworms and litter distribution affect plant-defensive chemistry.
Indirect effects of earthworms (Aporrectodea caliginosa) on an above-ground tritrophic interaction.
Effects of earthworms and organic litter distribution on plant performance and aphid reproduction.
Effects of belowground biota on primary and secondary metabolites in Brassica oleracea.
Earthworms affect plant growth and resistance against herbivores: A meta-analysis.
Deposition and decomposition of cattle dung and its impact on soil properties and plant growth in a cool-temperate pasture.
Mechanisms and evolution of plant resistance to aphids.
Trade-offs between plant growth and defense against insect herbivory: An emerging mechanistic synthesis.
Using knockout mutants to reveal the growth costs of defensive traits.
Growth-defense tradeoffs for two major anti-herbivore traits of the common milkweed Asclepias syriaca.
The unseen invaders: introduced earthworms as drivers of change in plant communities in North American forests (a meta-analysis)
Different earthworm ecological groups interactively impact seedling establishment.
Historical anthropogenic disturbances influence patterns of non-native earthworm and plant invasions in a temperate primary forest.
Non-native invasive earthworms as agents of change in northern temperate forests.
What limits trees in c4 grasslands and savannas?
How do earthworms affect microfloral and faunal community diversity?
Relative abundance and seasonal activity of earthworms (Lumbricidae and Megascolecidae) as determined by hand-sorting and formalin extraction in forest soils on the southern Appalachian Piedmont.
Root foraging influences plant growth responses to earthworm foraging.
Global meta-analysis of the impacts of terres trial invertebrate invaders on species, communities and ecosystems.
Invasive earthworms as seed predators of temperate forest plants.
Non-native earthworms promote plant invasion by ingesting seeds and modifying soil properties.
R: A Language and Environment for Statistical Computing.
Exotic earthworms of great lakes forests: a search for indicator plant species in maple forests.
Global diversity of drought tolerance and grassland climate-change resilience.
Single and interactive effects of deer and earth worms on non-native plants.
Linking aboveground and belowground diversity.
Earthworm invasion, white-tailed deer and seedling establishment in deciduous forests of north-eastern North America.
Assemblage time series reveal biodiversity change but not systematic loss.
Non-native anecic earthworms (Lumbricus terrestris L.) reduce seed germination and seedling survival of temperate and boreal trees species.
Ecosystem consequences of biological invasions.
The action of an animal ecosystem engineer: identification of the main mechanisms of earthworm impacts on soil microarthropods.
Invasibility of experimental grassland communities: the role of earthworms, plant functional group identity and seed size.
Invasion of a deciduous forest by earthworms: changes in soil chemistry, microflora, microarthropods and vegetation.
Assessment of anecic behavior in selected earthworm species: Effects on wheat seed burial, seedling establishment, wheat growth and litter incorporation.
Direct and indirect effects of endogeic earthworms on plant seeds.
Earthworms as seedling predators: Importance of seeds and seedlings for earthworm nutrition.
Interactive effects of global warming and “global worming” on the initial establishment of native and exotic herbaceous plant species.
Biodiversity–ecosystem function experiments reveal the mechanisms underlying the consequences of biodiversity change in real world ecosystems.
Trophic Downgrading of Planet Earth.
Earthworms reduce biotic 15-Nitrogen retention in northern hardwood forests.
Earthworm effects on the incorporation of litter C and N into soil organic matter in a sugar maple forest.
Carbon food resources of earthworms of different ecological groups as indicated by 13C compound-specific stable isotope analysis.
Linking direct and indirect pathways mediating earthworms, deer, and understory composition in Great Lakes forests.
Importance of earthworm–seed interactions for the composition and structure of plant communities: A review.
Earthworm invasion into previously earthworm-free temperate and boreal forests.
Trophic cascades, invasive species and body-size hierarchies interactively modulate climate change responses of ecotonal temperate–boreal forest.
Exploring carbon flow through the root channel in a temperate forest soil food web.
Estimating local biodiversity change: a critique of papers claiming no net loss of local diversity.
Earthworms increase soil microbial biomass carrying capacity and nitrogen retention in northern hardwood forests.
Allometric equations for estimation of ash-free dry mass from length measurements for selected European earthworm species (Lumbricidae) in the western Great Lakes region.
Effects of European earthworm invasion on soil characteristics in northern hardwood forests of Minnesota.
Changes in hardwood forest understory plant communities in response to European earthworm invasions.
Invader disruption of belowground plant mutualisms reduces carbon acquisition and alters allocation patterns in a native forest herb.
An unbiased correction for sampling error in validity generalization studies.
Exotic earthworm invasions in North America: ecological and policy implications: expanding global commerce may be increasing thelikelihood of exotic earthworm invasions, which could have negative implications for soil processes, other animal and plant species, and importation of certain pathogens.
Interactions of an introduced shrub and introduced earthworms in an Illinois urban woodland: impact on leaf litter decomposition.
Effects of earthworm invasion on plant species richness in northern hardwood forests.
Regional extent of an ecosystem engineer: Earthworm invasion in northern hardwood forests.
Uses and misuses of meta-analysis in plant ecology.
Handbook of Meta-Analysis in Ecology and Evolution.
Tree rings detect earthworm invasions and their effects in northern Hardwood forests.
The structure of earthworm communities.
Quantifying differences between native and introduced species.
Earthworm invasions in northern hardwood forests: a rapid assessment method.
Greenhouse-gas emissions from soils increased by earthworms.
The influence of invasive earthworms on indigenous fauna in ecosystems previously uninhabited by earthworms.
Invasions: the trail behind, the path ahead, and a test of a disturbing idea.
A meta-analysis of declines in local species richness from human disturbances.
Methodological issues and advances in biological meta-analysis.
Vive la resistance: reviving resistance for 21st century conservation.
Earthworm invasion as the driving force behind plant invasion and community change in northeastern North American forests.
Invasive earthworms shape forest seed bank composition.
Belowground interactions with aboveground consequences: Invasive earthworms and arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi.
Invasive plants have scale-dependent effects on diversity by altering species-area relationships.
Disturbance dynamics influence Carex pensylvanica abundance in a northern hardwood forest.
Invasive earthworms deplete key soil inorganic nutrients (Ca, Mg, K, and P) in a northern hardwood forest.
Ecosystem engineering effects on species diversity across ecosystems: a meta-analysis.
Invasive earthworms interact with abiotic conditions to influence the invasion of common buckthorn (Rhamnus cathartica).
Indirect and direct effects of exotic earthworms on soil nutrient and carbon pools in North American temperate forests.
Global biodiversity scenarios for the year 2100.
Positive interactions of nonindigenous species: invasional meltdown?
Impacts of biological invasions: what’s what and the way forward.
A consumer’s guide to evenness indices.
Invasive earthworm species and nitrogen cycling in remnant forest patches.
Belowground bud bank response to grazing under severe, short-term drought.
Global meta-analysis reveals no net change in local-scale plant biodiversity over time.
Ecological impacts of invasive alien plants: a meta-analysis of their effects on species, communities and ecosystems.
Invasive species triggers a massive loss of ecosystem services through a trophic cascade.
Ecological linkages between aboveground and belowground biota.
Terrestrial ecosystem responses to species gains and losses.
Resident plant diversity and introduced earthworms have contrasting effects on the success of invasive plants.
Selective vertical seed transport by earthworms: Implications for the diversity of grassland ecosystems.
Earthworms increase plant production: a meta-analysis.
Food security: the challenge of feeding 9 billion people.
The role of conservation agriculture in sustainable agriculture.
Comparing the yields of organic and conventional agriculture.
A review of earthworm impact on soil function and ecosystem services.
The formation of vegetable mould through the action of worms with observations on their habits.
Effects of earthworms on plant growth: patterns and perspectives.
The role of biomass allocation in the growth response of plants to different levels of light, CO2, nutrients and water: a quantitative review.
Earthworm ecology. 2nd Edition.
Earthworms influence the production of above- and belowground biomass and the expression of genes involved in cell proliferation and stress responses in Arabidopsis thaliana.
Signal Molecules Mediate the Impact of the Earthworm Aporrectodea caliginosa on Growth, Development and Defence of the Plant Arabidopsis thaliana.
Changes in soil N pools in response to earthworm population manipulations in agroecosystems with different N sources.
Earthworm species composition affects the soil bacterial community and net nitrogen mineralization.
Inorganic and organic phosphorus pools in earthworm casts (Glossoscolecidae) and a Brazilian rainforest Oxisol.
Effects of earthworms on Phosphorus dynamics - a review.
Movement of N from decomposing earthworm tissue to soil, microbial and plant N pools.
Effects of earthworm inoculation upon the root-growth of direct drilled cereals.
Influence of earthworms on soil productivity.
Land-use and land-management change: relationships with earthworm and fungi communities and soil structural properties.
Soil invertebrates and ecosystem services.
Soil fertility concepts over the past two centuries: the importance attributed to soil organic matter in developed and developing countries.
Ecology of arable land: perspectives and challenges
SOM management in the tropics: Why feeding the soil macrofauna?
Organic inputs for soil fertility management in tropical agroecosystems: application of an organic resource database.
An overview of some tillage impacts on earthworm population abundance and diversity - implications for functioning in soils.
A meta-analysis of experimental warming effects on terrestrial nitrogen pools and dynamics.
Handling continuous outcomes in quantitative synthesis. Methods guide for comparative effectiveness reviews.
Soil organisms as components of ecosystems Ecological Bulletins.
Earthworm management in tropical agroecosystems.
Earthworm communities in grasslands and horticultural soils.
Keys to Soil Taxonomy.
Are miroorganisms more effective than plants at competing for nitrogen?
Element interactions limit soil carbon storage.
The role of residues management in sustainable agricultural systems.
The meta-analysis of response ratios in experimental ecology.
Assessing the effect of elevated carbon dioxide on soil carbon: A comparison of four meta-analyses.
Statistical Methods for Meta-analysis.
A meta-analysis of elevated CO2 effects on woody plant mass, form and physiology.
The file drawer problem and tolerance for null results.
Metawin: Statistical Software for Meta-Analysis, Version 2.0.
